Update execution docs (#1804)
graphql/graphql.github.io: src/pages/learn/execution.mdx

}
```

You can think of each field in a GraphQL query as a function or method of the previous type which returns the next type. This is exactly how GraphQL works—each field on each type is backed by a _resolver function_ that is written by the GraphQL server developer. When a field is executed, the corresponding resolver is called to produce the next value.

If a field produces a scalar value like a string or number, then the execution completes. However, if a field produces an object value then the query will contain another selection of fields that apply to that object. This continues until the leaf values are reached. GraphQL queries always end at Scalar or Enum types.

## Root fields and resolvers

> At the top level of every GraphQL server is an Object type that represents the possible entry points into the GraphQL API, it's often called the `query` root operation type or the `Query` type. If the API supports mutations to write data and subscriptions to fetch real-time data as well, then it will have `Mutation` and `Subscription` types that expose fields to perform these kinds of operations too. You can learn more about these types on the [Schema and Types page](/learn/schema/#the-query-mutation-and-subscription-types).

Reviewer: I felt like having `query` and `Query` here might be confusing, perhaps adding quotes to clarify that the whole phrase "the query root operation type" is what it's often called would clarify this. Feel free to disregard if you don't agree.

```suggestion
At the top level of every GraphQL server is an Object type that represents the possible entry points into the GraphQL API, it's often called "the `query` root operation type" or the `Query` type. If the API supports mutations to write data and subscriptions to fetch real-time data as well, then it will have `Mutation` and `Subscription` types that expose fields to perform these kinds of operations too. You can learn more about these types on the [Schema and Types page](/learn/schema/#the-query-mutation-and-subscription-types).
```

In this example, our `Query` type provides a field called `human` which accepts the argument `id`. The resolver function for this field likely accesses a database and then constructs and returns a `Human` type:

```js
function Query_human(obj, args, context, info) {
  return context.db.loadHumanByID(args.id).then(
    userData => new Human(userData)
  )
}
```

> This example is written in JavaScript, however, GraphQL servers can be built in [many different languages](/code/). The resolver function receives four arguments:

Reviewer: `resolveInfo` is not required (or even mentioned) by the spec; neither is `context` actually. So let's clarify that this is specifically how the reference implementation works, and that this is how it works for all reference implementation resolvers:

```suggestion
This example is written in JavaScript, however GraphQL servers can be built in [many different languages](/code/). In the reference implementation, a resolver function receives four arguments:
```

- `obj`: The previous object (for a field on the root `Query` type, this argument is often not used).
- `args`: The arguments provided to the field in the GraphQL operation.
- `context`: A value provided to every resolver that may hold important contextual information like the currently logged in user, or access to a database.

> - `info`: A value holding field-specific information relevant to the current operation as well as the schema details. Refer to [type GraphQLResolveInfo for more details](/graphql-js/type/#graphqlobjecttype).

Reviewer: We should try and make it clear that `info` isn't something most people need to concern themselves with - at least not at first!

```suggestion
- `info`: generally only used in advanced use-cases, this is a value holding field-specific information relevant to the current operation as well as the schema details; refer to [type GraphQLResolveInfo](/graphql-js/type/#graphqlobjecttype) for more details.
```

<Callout type="info">
Note that while a query operation could technically write data to the underlying data system during its execution, mutation operations are conventionally used for requests that produce side effects during their execution. And because mutation operations produce side effects, GraphQL implementations can be expected to execute these fields serially.
</Callout>

## Asynchronous resolvers

Let's take a closer look at what's happening in this resolver function:

```js
function Query_human(obj, args, context, info) {
  return context.db.loadHumanByID(args.id).then(
    userData => new Human(userData)
  )
}
```

> The `context` is used to provide access to a database. Specifically, the `id` argument in the GraphQL query is used to fetch data for a user. Since loading from a database is an asynchronous operation, this returns a [Promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise). In JavaScript, Promises are used to work with asynchronous values, but the same concept exists in many languages, often called _Futures_, _Tasks_, or _Deferred_. When the database returns the data, we can construct and return a new `Human` object.

Reviewer: I don't think this "specifically" fits here. Here's an alternative take:

```suggestion
The `id` argument in the GraphQL query specifies the user whose data is requested, while `context` provides access to retrieve this data from a database. Since loading from a database is an asynchronous operation, this returns a [Promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise). In JavaScript, Promises are used to work with asynchronous values, but the same concept exists in many languages, often called _Futures_, _Tasks_, or _Deferred_. When the database returns the data, we can construct and return a new `Human` object.
```

Also... It isn't 2015 any more, `async/await` is widespread now. It would be nice to rewrite the function (maybe in a follow-up PR?) so it's easier to follow and we don't have to talk so much about promises:

```ts
async function Query_human(obj, args, context, info) {
  const userData = await context.db.loadHumanByID(args.id);
  return new Human(userData);
}
```

Notice that while the resolver function needs to be aware of Promises, the GraphQL query does not. It simply expects the `human` field to return something that can be further resolved to a scalar `name` value. During execution, GraphQL will wait for Promises, Futures, and Tasks to be completed before continuing and will do so with optimal concurrency.

## Trivial resolvers

Now that a `Human` object is available, GraphQL execution can continue with the fields requested for this type:

```js
function Human_name(obj, args, context, info) {
  return obj.name
}
```

> A GraphQL server is powered by a type system that is used to determine what to do next. Even before the `human` field returns anything, GraphQL knows that the next step will be to resolve fields on the `Human` type since the type system tells it that the `human` field will return this output type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A GraphQL server is powered by a type system that is used to determine what to do next. Even before the `human` field returns anything, GraphQL knows the next step will be to resolve fields on the `Human` type since the type system tells it that the `human` field will return this output type.
```

Resolving the name in this case is straightforward. The name resolver function is called and the `obj` argument is the new `Human` object returned from the previous field. In this case, we expect this object to have a `name` property, which we can read and return directly.

> Many GraphQL libraries will let you omit resolvers this simple and will assume that if a resolver isn't provided for a field, a property of the same name should be read and returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many GraphQL libraries let you omit resolvers this simple, assuming that if a resolver isn't provided for a field, a property of the same name should be read and returned.
```

}
```

Notice that our type system claims `appearsIn` will return Enum types with known values, however, this function is returning numbers! Indeed if we look up at the result we'll see that the appropriate values for the Enum type are being returned. What's going on?

> This is an example of _scalar coercion_. The type system knows what to expect and will convert the values returned by a resolver function into something that upholds the API contract. In this case, there may be an Enum type defined on our server that uses numbers like `4`, `5`, and `6` internally, but represents them as the expected values in the GraphQL type system.

Reviewer 2: Hi @mandiwise @benjie, this section is called Scalar coercion but an Enum is used as example. Since these are two separate types, conflating the two could lead to confusion for the readers.

I believe the spec uses the term `Result coercion` to describe the concept in this section. Maybe the following minor changes could make it clearer:

- Changing `scalar coercion` to `result coercion`
- Adding an example of the enum coercion implementation e.g.

```ts
Episode: {
  NEWHOPE: 4
  EMPIRE: 5
  JEDI: 6 
}
```

Sorry for the late comment, I just happen to see this PR after it's merged. I'm happy to make contributions if the above makes sense.

Reviewer: I agree the mix of scalar/enum is confusing and would love to see your suggested edits in a PR 👍

  }
}
```

As we can see, each field in the nested selection sets resolves to a scalar leaf value during execution of the query.

## Next steps

To recap what we've learned about execution:

- Each field in a GraphQL type system will have a corresponding resolver function that provides data for the field from an existing data source

> - Execution begins at the top-level `query`, `mutation`, and `subscription` fields

Reviewer: Should this be:

```suggestion
- Execution begins at the top-level `Query`, `Mutation`, or `Subscription` fields
```

It's not clear if the fields on the type are being referenced, or the top-level selections in the operation.
